---
layout: post
title: 'NT in 2024: 1 and 2 Peter'
date: '2024-05-25 02:15:56'
tags:
- bible-study
---

_Snippets from my handwritten devotional notes_

# Favorite insights

- Christ's imputed righteousness is what enables one to obey (1 Peter 1:2).
  - We are set apart to be like him (1 Peter 1:16).
  - We are saved from, not in one's empty life (1 Peter 1:18).
  - We are called out of darkness into his light (1 Peter 2:9).
- As we believe, Christ keeps us from falling (1 Peter 1:5).
  - My Savior is the Guardian for my soul (1 Peter 2:25).
- The source of sustainable joy is rooted in eternity (1 Peter 1:6-7).
  - I'm safe in Christ's arms; nothing can separate me from him (1 Peter 3:18).
- Faith amidst trials and setbacks brings commendation (1 Peter 1:7).
  - The trials of this world are temporary; the fleeting pleasures cannot compare to the eternal glory we will share with Christ (1 Peter 5:10).
- The vision is revealed progressively (1 Peter 1:10-11).
  - The Bible is our primary source of direction and guidance until he returns (2 Peter 1:19).
  - Greater confidence in the Word is established when we hear from him directly — when the LOGOS turns into RHEMA (2 Peter 1:18).
- Some Christians do not grow into the full experience of salvation (1 Peter 2:2).
  - Our shared identity must be in Christ (1 Peter 2:10).
- A godly life is not about effort. We receive what we need to live godly at salvation (2 Peter 1:4).
  - However, we as Christians should be particularly careful not to yield ourselves to the power of sin (2 Peter 2:20-22).
- God did not spare the people of Noah's day, but he always warns and leaves a remnant. Just as OT accounts of redemption point to Jesus, early manifestations of destruction point to eternal judgment —&nbsp;"made an example" (2 Peter 2:5-6).
  - The response to the reality of heaven and judgment is holy living (2 Peter 3:11-13).

**Recommended songs**

These songs by Charity Gayle touch on a lot of the themes in 1 and 2 Peter:

<figure class="kg-card kg-embed-card"><iframe width="200" height="113" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nbCnh5Q2o1Y?feature=oembed" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen="" title="Charity Gayle - Thank You Jesus for the Blood (Lyrics)"></iframe></figure><figure class="kg-card kg-embed-card"><iframe width="200" height="113" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NfVEQJjbNXQ?feature=oembed" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen="" title="Charity Gayle - Because of Jesus (Live / Lyric Video)"></iframe></figure>
# Favorite prayers

- Father, thank you for not withholding your precious Son (1 Peter 1:19-20).
- Lord, may I always see things from the perspective of eternity. May by temporary residence here on earth be devoted to you knowing that this is all that matters (1 Peter 1:17).
- Lord, give me a heart like that of Christ, one that is not driven by bitterness and resentment (1 Peter 2:23).
- Lord, take away my worldly worries but instead make me anxious to do your will (1 Peter 4:2).
- Lord, may the lure of money never lead me to do what is not right (2 Peter 2:15).

# Favorite list

**Why we are careful to live properly (1 Peter 2)**

1. Worldly desires wage war against our souls
2. Our honorable behavior is a testimony before the unsaved world
3. For the Lord's sake — how we live reflects upon God
4. We are called to do good, even if it means suffering
5. Christ's life is given as an example for us to follow — he who had no sin

# Favorite questions

- How is the dispensation of grace "just" and "fair" — don't we deserve death? Isn't this a result of mercy and grace instead (2 Peter 1:1)?
